[MUSIC]
Here, we'll break down
the Hello World program.
Just so you can understand exactly
what's going on with the program and
how it works.
It's a simple program.
But we'll go through it, piece by piece,
so you can understand the code.
So to look at hello world.
It starts off at the top
with an include statement.
Hashtag include standard IO, stdio.h.
So hashtag include.
Anything with a hashtag in front of it
is what's called a compiler directive.
It's not really a piece of code.
It tells a compiler to do
something special, and
include tells the compiler to include
whatever the file is to the right.
So hashtag includes to stdio.h
says take this file stdio.h and
include it right here in the code.
So it just basically, it cuts and pastes.
It takes that stdio.h and
pastes it to the beginning of this file.
Now in this case, stdio.h is a library,
standard library.
In fact, it stands for standard IO.
And standard IO library, it has all
the standard IO, input/output functions,
like printf for printing.
So if you ever wanna do printf you've
gotta include the standard IO library.
So this basically takes the .h library for
the library, the header file for
the library, and includes it at the top.
Now, the .h file, what that does is it
just takes all the library functions and
defines them.
It doesn't define all
the library functions,
it defines their inputs and outputs.
It doesn't have all the code for the, but
it says each function,
here's what it takes.
One input, one output,
something like that.
It lists that.
Gives what are called function prototypes.
So, but the point is that if you want
to include a library, use a library,
then you have to include it at the top,
include at least it's header
file at the top of your code.
So, stdio, if you want to use
printer function for printing,
you've got to include stdio.h.
So, you do that and that's at the top.
And you can include any number of
libraries depending on what type of coding
you're doing, but
we'll stick with the standard library.
So standard io.h,
you include that at the top.
Now then, inside the code, so
printf is inside standard io.
And that's exactly why
we're including that.
So that's the first line.
Now inside the program, after you've done
the include, you have the main function.
So there's a function defined called main.
And we'll talk in more detail
about functions a little bit.
But the main function, it starts out
with this main, open parenthesis,
closed parenthesis.
This is where all the execution starts.
So when it sees that main it says okay,
this is where I want to
start running my code.
When it's time to run the code,
I go to the beginning of the main and
run from there.
Okay.
So
main marks the beginning of the code,
all execution starts at the main.
So every C program, or C++ program,
has to have a main in it.
Now, curly brackets.
After the main, there's an open curly
bracket, then there's a little code, and
then there's a closed curly bracket.
So curly brackets are used to
groups statements together into
what are called scopes.
So, but the idea here is that if
there's a function, so the main,
it's a list of instructions.
In our case, it's one instruction.
But you could have many instructions
inside your main function, right.
All of them have to be grouped
together in curly brackets.
So you have an open curly bracket,
then you have all your instructions, and
then you have a close curly bracket.
And then all those instructions in between
the curly brackets are part of main.
So whenever you start executing,
you execute the main,
you execute all those instructions
one at a time from the top.
Not all of them,
depending on the control flow, but
you start executing at the top
of those instructions.
So that's the idea.
All functions have to start and
end with curly brackets.
Now inside their, inside our function,
our main function, we have a printf,
print statement.
And that just basically prints
to the screen by default.
Inside the parenthesis, you put in
quotes whatever you want to print.
So in our case, we wanna print the word,
the phrase, hello world.
So you say printf and then in parenthesis,
you have quotes Hello world,
closed quotes.
And there's a semi colon at
the end of the print statement,
after the print statement,
that's standard in C.
These traditional statements,
assignment statements and
so forth, function calls,
you put a semi colon at the end after,
at the end of your statement so
that C knows that the line has ended.
And note that, that means that
the indentation doesn't matter.
The spacing, indentation,
the file doesn't matter at all.
All it's looking at is semicolons.
So say you got a program
that is 20 lines long.
You can put them on the same
physical line in your text editor.
It could be never hitting Return.
You could just have one long
line with 20 statements.
As long as you put semicolons between
them, C will execute it just fine.
So that's what the semicolons are for.
Now, this isn't a main,
this is a different main, but
it does exactly the same
thing as the first main.
So, in quotes in the original main,
we said, "hello, world\n".
So there's, if you'll notice
the slash n it's a special character.
So hello world is clear.
It prints the word hello world.
Then the slash n is a carriage return,
a new line.
So whenever it sees a slash n,
it goes to the next line,
which means that if you didn't put the
slash n, it wouldn't go to the next line.
So for instance,
in the program that we have up here,
this main right here It first does
a print hello, then it prints world.
But notice that there's
no slash n in between.
So what that means is it'll print hello,
and then on the same line,
it will print world,
because we didn't put a new line.
Then it prints a new line, so
anything else we print after
that would be on the next line.
So that \n is a special character, and
theres several of these special
characters that you can print and quote.
But we won't belabor that,
because this isn't the type of thing
that's actually particularly important for
Arduino, because you're not generally
doing a lot of string manipulations.
With Arduinos,
you can but there's generally no need
since you're not printing anything, right.
You're not having a screen generally,
so it's not something we worry about.
But \n is useful, because carriage return
is something you often want to print, so.
And even in the Arduino,
when we start using a serial interface,
we'll be printing stuff to the screen for
diagnostics and debugging, and
stuff like that.
And we'll want to put carriage returns
in there so that we can read the text.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]